# Investigation of Largest Coal electricity Reliance and Usage between Nations
  We decided to encode our data as points connected by lines with the x-axis representing time (in years, an interval quantity) and the y-axis representing electricity generated (in the natural log of terawatt-hours). Lines made for an effective encoding because they could show how a given country's electricity changed over the years while also allowing for easy comparison between different countries. The points also allowed the visualization to act as a scatterplot to some degree because they can more clearly indicate where exactly a country's energy generation was for a given year. We set all of the points to be small and a pale shade of blue and the lines to be thin and a light shade of grey in order to keep the visualization from being cluttered and allow our interaction feature to further emphasize particular pieces of data such that interacted points and groups of data would stand out in relation to the rest. We only labeled the x-axis ticks for every five years to keep it from being cluttered and labeled the y-axis ticks for each integer from -5 to 9. Electricity generation differed so significantly between different countries that we decided to apply the natural log to this data so that our y-axis would not be excessively spread out due to most countries never exceeding 100 terawatt-hours but others peaking at well over 1000. Our dataset showed that some countries even had years where they produced 0 terawatt-hours of energy, leading to the natural log of their terawatt-hours for those years being undefined. We decided to visualize these points by setting them at y = -5. We were initially thinking of looking into energy generated through solar power, but its values were even more strung out across the different countries throughout the years and therefore would make for a greater challenge when it came to making the graph visually-appealing.
  
  The y-axis tips are not necessarily easy to interpret the meaning of, so we included the original terawatt-hour value along with the country and year in our "tooltip" which appears whenever the cursor hovers near a point. We have this text in black and bold lettering so that it can easily be read over the data points and lines lying beneath it. This helps clear things up especially when it comes to the years where a country produced 0 terawatt-hours of energy and is therefore at the very bottom of the visualization where the y-axis tick is labeled as -5. We also made the line representing the hovered-over country bolder and changed the color from grey to blue to make it stand out from the rest. Similarly, we also changed the point's color from blue to orange and increased its size to highlight what exactly the data in the tooltip is describing. Some alternatives we considered was a hover style heatmap with a unique setup or a steamgraph recording information on similar data. These 2 options were decidely unfollowed due to the complication of understanding d3 with these more complex graph types, and hence a more simplified format in the form of a multi-line graph was decided upon. The chosen interactive feature was used mostly because of interest of replication and utlizing a type of interaction designed to simplify understanding of a graph and also simplify the need of certain graph requirements. Notice for example, the graph has no need for a legend to determine the country representing each line, since one could hover a line and be given the exact country it relates to thanks to the hovered point providing that information for the viewer.
  
  We worked separately on various portions of the project until working together throughout the 2/15 lecture which is where most of it was completed. Roughly twenty cumulative people-hours were spent on the assignment with much of it involving debugging issues involving how our data was encoding on the visualization and how it was labeled, especially when it comes to differences between what was seen on our localhost pages and what was presented by the GitHub pages link. The portions of work that took the most time were particularly determing how to create a hovering mechanic such that the all lines related to the closest hovered mouse point would be highlighted. Once this was accomplished, we by then also had everything else (exactly mouse coordinates, specific data of hovered point) we needed to implement additional text information and the tooltip, and hence finishing those work portions became much easier in return. From there, it was mostly about ironing out the minor details, such as text font and formatting, typos, minor caculation errors, and positioning of graph, titles, and axes. In regards to before implementing the hover line feature, manipulating and importing the data was rather simple enough due to researching instructions on how do so, and the points and paths were replicated by a similar usage function that the d3 lecture svg utlized (with some minor but important changes in style in regards to the path lines).
